So hello, everybody. I am here with John Revekey. Many of you, most of you, everyone who's watching
this will have seen a video with me and John Revekey before. And also, John had a discussion
with Jordan Peterson a few months ago. And that discussion, in that discussion, many things came
up that were related to also John and I's discussion, and then Jordan and I's discussion.
And so Jordan, someone in the group had the idea of doing something with me. And then that added
Bishop Barron on top. And so a few weeks ago, we had a discussion with Bishop Barron, which is
going to be online. I'll link it to the description. Many of you may even have seen it. And it was a
very interesting discussion, one which at first kind of tried to find its way. And then suddenly,
we really felt like it just kind of took off. And many interesting things were said. So John and I
thought it would be a good idea to kind of dive back into the things that we talked about and
explore them even more. So John, thanks for coming.
This is Jonathan Peugeot. Welcome to the symbolic world.
It's a great pleasure, Jonathan. And it was my idea, by the way, to include you.
That's very kind of you. Well, no, because, well, friendship was part of it. But the other part
of it was you were very much a ghostly presence in the conversation I had with Jordan. And I felt
it was unfair, ultimately, to not allow you to actually be present and be involved. So that's
why I suggested it to Jordan. And it's interesting because with adding Bishop Barron, the conversation
definitely morphed into something completely different. Yeah, because he's not involved in
this kind of inner, the way that we've been talking about religion, let's say, for the past several
years, you and I and Jordan in our different ways, but kind of coming towards similar ideas about
phenomenology or in your sense, more kind of coccy and Jordan's evolutionary approach, all of
this is kind of coming towards something. And Bishop Barron is dropping out from outside with
a more kind of Catholic, Thomas and Augustinian way of thinking. So for me, that was one of the
most interesting things was to watch the discussion move towards the direction where all of a sudden
I could see in Bishop Barron's eyes that he was like, oh, this is like there's something else going
on here. There's another type of discussion. Yeah, he just wrote, I just read it this morning. I
didn't read it thoroughly. I just read parts of it. He wrote a blog about and yeah, he was very
clearly appreciative in all three senses of the word of the discussion. And so I think your
observation is accurate. And so I think that this is, to me, it was exciting because I think that
the discussion we're having and bringing it back to the human experience in a way that a lot of
the arguments that have been going on in the past few hundred years, a lot of them have been arguing
religion from a sociological perspective or from a scientific perspective, even which is that was
always the worst, the worst one, but a lot of it from kind of a more philosophical, metaphysical
perspective. But the way that we're trying to bring, come towards it, although it does include
metaphysics and sociology and all of that, it brings it back to this just the way that we
experience the world and how it's coherent with those experiences. Yeah, I think that's right.
And part of what we're doing is trying to articulate and explicate and elucidate the
relationship between these things. So what I'm going to say isn't going to be terribly clear,
but not only is there a convergence between us, and I share that with you, by the way,
that sense, and I'm appreciative of it. I think there's this convergence around
things, these topics of meaning and wisdom and transformation and connectedness
and the central roles of intelligence in an ancient sense and the tension, the way they're
that's what I want to say, the way intelligence and attention are bound up together.
All of these things are coming together, I think, in a very powerful way. And I think
that convergence between us and between those terms and concepts and topics is also resonant.
It's not identical, but it's deeply analogous to some of the convergence I see happening in
sort of the broader culture, at least aspects of it, or what Seville King calls this corner of
the Internet. It's getting to be a pretty big corner, but yeah, I appreciate that.
Yeah, it's interesting because this corner of the Internet also, it has its different branches
and different emphases, but it definitely is this kind of convergence. I would say the way
that I see it is also an exciting opening, you could say it's like that. There's an exciting
opening where things that people before couldn't understand or didn't understand, all of a sudden
they're starting to get a sense of what it's about. The basic idea that religion was superstitious,
that religion is silly, that it's just added on to our experience was the common understanding,
not for everyone, but it was like a common understanding that was floating around in
culture, but now that seems to be breaking down and people are excited to now be able to understand
things that before just didn't make any sense to them at all.
Yeah, I agree with that very much. I mean, I think there's a bifurcation. I think that that's
happening. Way before COVID, even before I did Awakening for the Meaning Crisis, I was reading
about people talking about the religious turn within phenomenology, that that was a broad movement
happening. Then I saw within the emergence of 4e cognitive science that these themes that were
previously considered woo-woo, mindfulness and mystical experience and wisdom and meaning
and transformation and even the sense of the sacred, these are now coming into, these are
legitimate topics again and it's been a very rapid increase. On the other hand, I also see
the ramping up of the machinery of distraction in our culture and the machinery of surrogacy
where we're going to replace the real pursuit of meaning and wisdom with surrogates, some rather
innocuous and others really, really toxic. I see that, both of those happening and that's not
a contradiction. I think they're both happening for the same reason. Yeah, that makes a lot of
sense that there's a zeitgeist that's pulling things, pulling apart the ancient, the modern
world who's pulling it apart and now people lost in there. The phenomena that is bringing us
this new understanding of religion is the same phenomena that brings about viral videos on YouTube.
All of a sudden realizing how much attention is part of the way the world manifests itself,
but in that version, the viral video on YouTube is really the broken down version of it where
all of a sudden things pop up, take up all the attention and then vanish and then pop up,
take up all the attention and then vanish, this super rapid cycle of attention. But like you
said, if you take those two phenomena together, it points us to people understanding or becoming
more aware of attention, the problem and the opportunities of attention. Yeah, I think this
is consonant with what you're saying. It's a case of one group of people and I'm not trying to do an
us them thing. I'm just trying to write the people who are becoming aware of the centrality of
attention and what I call relevance realization and connectedness and the human need for both
grounding and self-transcendence and both individuation and participation in the community,
all of that and COVID I think highlighted all these themes. But then there's people who are not
so much aware of it, but embodying it almost like in a psychoanalytic sense, they're acting it out
the importance of attention and salience and relevance. But they're acting it out in a way
that's generally not fruitful for their own flourishing or the flourishing of the people
that they're living with or living in connection with. Exactly, also because the internet has
afforded a space where the relationship between attention and power has been increased thousands
of times and so all of a sudden people understanding that how attention can be a weapon and attention
can be a way to dominate and can be a way to seduce and can be all these things are kind of
coming up to the four, but instead of in a little village where you realize that you can do things
to manipulate others or to kind of... Now you have 100,000 people, 100,000 people under you
that can act as your body to act out in the world and yeah, we see the results of that.
Yeah, the internet's kind of like Tolkien's The One Ring. It's just this magnifier in some
fashion and it can magnify, for the Hobbits, it magnifies their sort of diminutive sneakiness
and they can become invisible, but for Sauron it magnifies his cruelty and his might. So yeah,
I think the internet is very much like The One Ring in that fashion and maybe that myth
coming to mind isn't totally just ephemeral. I mean, part of it is we are not doing one of the
strongest recommendations of that whole fantasy series is to step back and really reflect and
think about what's our relationship to The One Ring and should we be picking it up and
should we be more wary of it and things like that. And I do worry that we are running this
grand social experiment with social media and with phones on ourselves and the next generation.
There's already some preliminary evidence that's having an impact and we don't know what this is
going to do. We're doing something that is 10 times more powerful than the printing press
and the printing press unleashed forces that then turned to bloody religious war in an
unforeseen fashion. And so I do not think we are exercising proper care around this.
That's for sure. Nobody gets too big. It is like, you know, when we talk about,
this is when I look at the internet and I look at social media, it's the closest thing I have to
understanding a kind of, how can I say this, a God acting in the world in the sense that
like a pagan deity that is embodied in ritual and in practice and in nodes of attention because
it's just, there's no one controlling it. But it still seems to have a will and seems to be going
towards a telos and everybody sees it and nobody can stop it. And everybody says, well, at least
I'm going to get what I can get as I watch this God kind of move towards its sacrifice or whatever
is going on. But everybody's like, well, at least I can get something out of it while it's happening.
I think that's a very apropos way of thinking of it. I often use Thomas Merton's idea of a hyper
object. And Morton, Thomas Morton, I misspoke. Yeah, I was surprised that you would have a term
like that. And so Morton's idea in hyper objects is that there are things like,
the internet, global warming, evolution, their realities, but they're not bodies.
They're not spatially temporarily located. They're distributed. And we can't actually
sort of conceive of them. We can have terms referring to them, but we can't sort of,
if you allow me the science fiction reference, we can't grok them. We can't sort of really get.
And so we, but they're not abstract things over there, right? They're insinuating themselves
into the very fiber of our being. Yeah, they have more subtle bodies to use or they disturb.
Yeah. And I'm fine with that. And you see a similar kind of move in later Neoplatonism.
We can wear Proclus and the elements of theology and he's trying to work out
all of these principalities and powers and principles. And I think the relationship
that a lot of people have to the internet is properly understood as a religious relationship.
I mean, the internet serves as an oracle. Think about that. I mean, think about the devotion
people, they want to live in its world. And like you said, they have a sense of it having a life
and power of their own that people want to be in service to, but they also want to appropriate
that power. It's very much, it's almost like, you know, bald or something from the Old Testament
in that fashion. And so I think that's again, just to circle it back, I think that's again,
right? The reason why these things are coming together and you talk about this better than I
do, right? It is, right? The, what we're talking about, but the internet and what we're talking
about about this, this meaning wisdom movement about religion, those again, they might seem
like opposites or in opposition, but there's a deep underlying common ground that they're both
pointing to again, right? This phenomena, I don't think it's a coincidence that the internet and,
you know, the shared universes of Marvel and all of this are also occurring at the same time as
this return to an understanding of the depth and importance of religion. I think those are
completely, they belong together in terms of a unified explanation. Yeah. There's an interesting
thing that I've been realizing recently is that one of the, one of the aspects that seems to have
happened in Christianity, but probably has happened in Buddhism as well, because it seems similar,
is then the understanding that ultimately the sacrifice is a sacrifice of, we say a sacrifice
of worship. That's how the Christians were presented. Like when we go to Vespers service,
we talk about the evening sacrifice, and it's a sacrifice of worship. And it's to actually
understand that sacrifices is attention. That's what sacrifices, right? And so it's this,
the way that you attend, when you attend, you kind of give your attention to the thing that
you're attending to. And at the same time, you're also sacrificing the things next to them, right?
You're focusing. Yes. Yes. Yes. And so, and that seems to be something which with the internet is
now accelerating so much that it's almost impossible not to notice that that's what it is, that the
internet is like a, is like a monster, or is a being that lives through attention, that requires
our attention to exist. Like Neil Gaiman, I don't know if you know a little bit about Neil Gaiman,
he has, he wrote a lot about that. Like in some of his series, even in American gods, he had this
idea that these gods exist through attention. And if you don't give them attention, then they
weaken. If you give them attention, then they become stronger. And for all my criticism, Neil
Gaiman, that's a really powerful understanding. And I think one that is actually very Christian,
like that we really do have this idea that, you know, as we move away from the physical
sacrificial system in ancient times, we move toward the world where we understand sacrifice as
attention itself. I think that's, I think that is so consonant with the model that's emerging
by Wall and others who are the cog side of attention. We're moving from a rather simple
model of attention as a filter to that what was actually happening in attention is prioritization.
So that the function of attention is to prioritize. And so, and that means,
I think quite correctly, like you said, that good attention is proper prioritization,
if you think of it that way, that you're prioritizing the things that should be given priority.
And I don't know if this is adequate, and I'm not claiming it is, but I can see why notions
of worship and sacrifice are bound up together. There's two sides of the same coin of the idea
of trying to give proper priority, you know, to quote Aristotle and people don't understand it,
you know, first things first, right? And people think that just means the first thing on your
list is the first thing you should do. That's not what Aristotle means. He means that the task is
to realize what the first principles are and to prioritize them over things that are less
central to being and to truth, et cetera. And so, and I think of that as the virtue of reverence.
And I think reverence is to properly realize the relevance of something that should be given
a priority even over yourself. And that's where it starts. Yeah, that's where you start to get
the notions of sacrifice and worship, which I, like I say, if you go away from sacrifices,
killing something, right, which is usually focal in people's mind to this idea of prioritization
and a recognition and acknowledgement of priority, then I think I'm in agreement with what you're
talking about. Yeah, and the idea of killing something is always the wrong way of understanding
sacrifice, at least at the first level. It often involves killing something, but not necessarily.
There are sacrifices of grain, sacrifices of oil, all these different sacrifices. It has to do with
offering up. You take something that's precious, and then you give it up towards something which
is above you. And that's exactly what attention is, and that's what prioritization is. One of the
interesting things I wanted to ask you about, because there's something that I've been thinking
about, and there are several priests that are thinking about this right now, is that in the
Jewish law, like in the Hebraic law, during Yom Kippur, which was the day of atonement,
the day of becoming one, there were two sacrifices. And this, I'm wondering what you think about this
in terms of attention. There was a sacrifice which was offered up and was used to purify the space,
and then there was a sacrifice which was cast away, a scapegoat, which was sent out to Azizel,
which is a demon out in the wilderness. This is what I've been thinking about in terms of
attention, which is the attention seems to have two parts to it. One which is a concentration,
focus, prioritization, but another part which is a cutting off, a circumcision, a cutting off of
you have to be able to chop off the things that are pushing in or trying to take over, let's say,
and then so it's like a double movement, one of focusing and then one of pushing away. I don't
know if that's something that is consonant with. Yeah, I think it is, and I'll need a little bit
of space, but what I mean by that is, I think the prioritization function, so what I mean is give up
the old model of there's input and then there's processing and then there's output. The newer
model is there's a sensory motor loop. As I'm moving, I'm sensing, as I'm sensing, I'm moving,
and there really isn't anything, there isn't a homunculus willpower out there. Instead, there's
something more like character. There are sets of constraints on this, and then what we're doing,
and we remember, and attention is self-organizing like that because we both direct attention,
but attention also directs us, and so what we're trying to do is, what I'm trying to get you to
see is a new way of thinking of what decision is. Instead of thinking of decision as the
executor behind it all, like doing this, think of decision as exactly what you're saying.
A way of thinking about this is attention is both ruling in and ruling out. It's what's
ruled in and what's ruled out. This is analogous, one of my former students and now colleague,
Corey Lewis, talks about this in the philosophy of science. He talks about
that what laws do is they rule out. They say no, no, no, no, and that what models do is rule in.
This is what you have to bring in and this is what you have to prioritize in order to do your
thing. In an analogous fashion, attention is making decisions of ruling in and ruling out. Did
that help? No, that makes a lot of sense, and it makes a lot of sense. Also, if you think of things
like ancient law, like ancient Roman law, the way that it worked, there were two aspects of the
system, one which was a tortoise and a patestas. Patestas were the actual rules, like the military
or the embodiment of what you're not allowed to do, the police part of it. The other one was a
tortoise, which was the model, like you said, the thing you follow, the person you model your life
on. Someone who inspires you to be a certain way. It was a direct, non-explicit model. Then
the other one is an explicit set of rules that is lacking the more direct part of it. It ends up
being a right hand and a left hand of how the system works, let's say. You can see that with
the idea of the saints and then the canons of the church, for example, where you have models
you're supposed to follow, and then you have a bunch of things you're allowed to do or not allowed
to do, like all these rules that are more precise and more about what you're not allowed to do,
let's say. One way of thinking about it is attention has the function of constraining
possibility. This is impossible. It's structuring that, or at least this is highly improbable,
and this is even in predictive processing models of attention, but you also need attention
as also aspirational. Yeah, that's a nice word. Love that. Yeah. It's trying to disclose the
affordances by which we can more properly come into conformity or transformative relationship to
what's real, what's happening, what's relevant, what's pertinent, all the sort of stuff that I
tend to obsess about. Yeah, very much. Then the idea also that's happening with attention that
goes into this is to not have a humane model of attention. The humane model of attention is the
static impersonal observer and Toad in his book on body and mind says, that's why Hume can't find
causation of the world because his model of attention is a pure passive spectacle of observation
and not moving around engaging. The other thing is to, this goes with Christopher Moll's work,
that attention is adverbial. It's a way of modifying other things you're doing. Let me quickly
point out what I mean by that. We tend to think of attention as a spotlight and we shine it and
there's truth to that because light makes things stand out and that's what attention does. It
makes things more salient. But the thing is, and Moll points this out, but attention isn't like
walking. I can say to you, walk. Get up and walk. Okay. Now, if I say to you, start practicing,
you'll say to me, practice what? Or if I say, train, begin training, you'll go train what?
The things we do that we do by modifying other things. And if I say to you,
you have to do this a little bit or subtly to bring it up. I say, I want you to pay attention,
but I don't want you to pay attention by changing how you're looking or how you're listening or how
you're remembering or how you're coordinating, looking, listening and remembering. I just want
you to pay attention and you'll say to me, I don't know what that means. Attention is a way in which,
this is what I mean. It's more adverbial. It's a way in which we're modifying our connectedness
to reality. And it's not like it's not a beam coming out of our head. It's a shaping of our
whole orientation and connectedness to reality. It's a much more comprehensive thing. Does that
make sense? It makes a lot of sense. It makes a lot of sense because at least in kind of the
orthodox perspective, theological perspective, there really is this idea of synergistic
relationship, like synergistic relationship with God, where like you said, there's a sense in which
you're kind of called, like you're called for, and then you kind of moved forward, but that also
affects the amount of calling or the direction of calling. So it's something that's very difficult
to fully separate and say something like, you know, like that's God acting, that's you acting.
It's like, no, it's this constant moving between this call towards your own telos and then your
capacity to embody it and then it modifies the direction. So it's like you said, it's a more
kind of, it's a synergistic model in terms of how we took what transformation.
It's synergistic this way. Exactly. There's the calling and it's not action or passivity,
it's participation, but it's also synergistic this way. It's not sort of a Cartesian theater
or Lockean theater. It's the whole person. Like if I would put it in a slogan and take caution around
that because it's a slogan, but you attend with your whole body. You don't just attend with sort of
through your brain. Yeah, right. That's what I'm trying to get at. And then another dimension of
that is the fact that attention is often shared in it. Like distributed attention is a significant
part of distributed cognition. So wait, like children, if you watch babies, like they joint
attention in that loop that you're talking about not like between people is what makes language
learning possible. Like attention is there primordially, joint attention. And we take it for
granted. Like when I point, you look, you try and trace out my attention. But if you point,
like for any other animal, they look at your finger because you hate it salient, right?
But and notice how kids, when kids are at the one word stage, they supplement it with pointing.
So they use joint attention to make meaning, to make meaning clear. So again, it's more whole
person. It's more dynamic. And it's more shared and joint. I mean, it's funny. You'll like this.
There's a line in the Psalms that is sort of resonating with me as I get into this,
which there's a line where it says deep calling to deep, right? The deep calling to deep, right?
And so that that's that's sort of my, I don't know what to put, I don't mean I'm not trying to be
sacrilegious anymore. I'm trying to be say something that stands out for me. That's kind of a biblical
motto, I guess I have for this, for the way of thinking about this. And it is properly,
again, for me, because it again, it brings up this deep connection we're talking about
between all of this and religio, right? So here's a question in terms of study,
because this is something that I've been talking about and thinking about, but I'd like to know
your opinion on it. It seems that we have something also about common joint attention.
We seem to search out places and moments where we can all attend to similar things as a group,
right? So you go to a concert, even just in terms of entertainment, why do you go to the
movie theater? Like we all sit together and then we watch, of course there's the big screen,
but there's something more than the big screen, which is why we like watching movies with friends
and with with family. And so it seems like there's also something in terms of that there's a
transformation which occurs through to common attention. And that seems for the good and ill,
right? And so you I have the image of Hitler, you know, with like 100,000 people all standing in
front of him and just giving him all their attention and it and it acting as like a catalyst for
something insane. So I don't know if there's if people have studied that or talk very much,
very much. I mean, so first of all, it goes directly to the point I just mentioned and
people like Thomas Sello and others have made that apparent. How much of our cognitive development
depends on is afforded by joint attention, the capacity for joint attention. And you think about
why this would matter to hunter-gatherers, like joint attention is absolutely crucial for coordination,
social coordination. It goes towards the work that Dan Chiapia and I have published about
scientists, the NASA scientists, controlling the rovers on Mars. And how do they how do they
can how do they get how do they coordinate their attention? But it also goes towards this. And
think about how this works both internally and externally and how they reinforce each other.
Notice and we know this even for young children and psychologists have the settings in of giving
multiple names to the same problem, but the same phenomena or calling two different phenomena by
the same name. It's called the jingle jangle problem. So it's known by many different names,
inter sensory hypothesis and blah, blah, blah, intermodal and blah, blah. Okay. But they all
are talking about the same thing that a child will prefer to look at a stimulus that it can both
see and hear over a stimulus they can just see or that it can see and hear and touch. Right. And
then there's good reason for this. If you have just I'll use some cybernetic language. If you have
just a single channel, the chances that what you're seeing are due to subjective bias or distortion
are quite high. But if I have two independent channels, the chances that the result is due
to bias are reduced precisely, right, because of the increase of that convergence. That's what by
the way, and it's not just sort of fascism. The reason why we like numbers is because numbers
allow us to coordinate the senses. You can see three, you can hear three, you can touch three,
three allows us to bind the senses together. And what that does is in using Russia's term,
that increases the trustworthiness, not certainty, but it increases the trustworthiness of the
information we're getting. Now think about this and Plato brings this out in the dialogues,
when we can do that with each other. So it's not only within my senses, but between how
all of us are trying to make sense. Think about how that massively increases the trustworthiness.
Aristotle treated it as one of the three marks of realness. If you had rational,
intersubjective agreement, then it must be real. We know that that's not right. Things we can get
that agreement, like you said, Hitler, and it can still be false. But that's why you shouldn't
confuse trustworthiness with certainty. But trustworthiness is valuable. I mean, it's very valuable.
And so we want to share with other people what's happening because it makes it more real for us
in a deep sense. And the way you afford that, what are you converging? You're converging attention.
You're converging attention. So that would be my explanation for that.
Yeah, that's a really wonderful, I mean, when you say it that way, it makes so much sense.
It's just completely reasonable to understand that if you have a group of people and you're
attending to something, it increases the reality of the thing you're attending to because you're
constantly aware that, okay, so here's a hundred people, they are all attending to the thing I'm
attending to. So maybe I need to attend to it. Like maybe there's something real about what's
happening or more real than a more idiosyncratic moment, let's say. But this says a lot about
our situation right now, because I have children. And to imagine they spent months and months sitting
alone on Zoom watching their teacher or even in class with masks on where you don't see other
people's faces. This has a major effect, I imagine has a major effect on their capacity to pay
attention and to kind of make sense of what's going on. I think it has, I mean, I think our
children are going to be especially sensitive to it, especially young children. But I think it
has an impact on everybody. So one of the things, because I was talking to people during COVID about
this, and one of the adjectives that kept coming up, one of these two adjectives, things seem
unreal or they seem surreal. There's a sense of losing touch with reality because the capacities
for joint attention were being truncated or they were being transferred to this weird kind of joint
attention that we have right here right now, which is very odd for us. It's a very odd kind of joint
attention. Yeah, and that gives me another layer of understanding of the Floyd protest, because
for me, it's been something that I've been trying to understand so much. But that all of a sudden
puts another layer on it, which is that people for months had been starved of joint attention in many
ways, whether it was sports or religion or whatever clubs that people participated in,
whatever concerts people went to. And it wasn't necessarily a conscious thing, but they were
just starved for attention. And then all of a sudden, when this point of attention, very salient
point of attention appeared on their horizon and the opportunity to kind of join together and celebrate
or, I mean, it wasn't celebrate, but in the general sense of just kind of getting angry about the
same thing. And so it just exploded into these moments. I think that's true. I mean,
you and I talked about it besides whatever, and I think there were legitimate reasons about
social justice and about inequity. And I think those are real. But I think above and beyond that,
there was something else that was being poured into this. And it's still reverberated through.
I think you see that in there's many instances of this kind of hunger. One of the things we're
discovering about attention is not only is it bottom up, it grabs our attention, it goes from
features to the Gestalt and top down, we can direct it from sort of larger Gestalt to specific
details. But there's also what you might call a historical dimension. So attention is not only
organizing up, down, it's organizing past, present. So your previous history of what you're
paying attention to has an impact on what will jump out for you as salient right now.
And so with Tim Leathercraft and Blake Richards and I, we tried to actually
put that into our relevance realization model that there's these opposing tendencies
to try and stay with something if it's sort of similar to your past patterns of attention.
But there's also good evidence for what's called inhibition on return. We also want to move away
from what we've paying a lot of attention to. And so these two things are playing each other out.
And I think if you push the attentional pendulum, if you'll allow me that metaphor,
too far one way and starve people, there's going to be, there's going to be a rebound
the other way people are going to hunger for, like you said, something that can be
co-realized through joint attention. Yeah. And that can also make you understand the problem of,
let's say, ill practice asceticism, right? Where that if you're not careful, asceticism can actually
lead to, to excesses back and, you know, like the idea of a diet, right? The idea of people
dieting where they, they, they're able, they try to just like not pay attention to the thing.
And then all of a sudden it just cracks and, you know, you're coming. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly.
Exactly. That's a very good analogy. I mean, the thing is to try to get the, the virtue,
the golden mean of a schesis, right? Of, of, of discipline, of spiritual exercises.
Well, and the schesis in the traditional sense is always a redirecting of attention.
Yes. You hear it all the time. People say you don't just fast. If you fast and you don't pray,
you're in trouble. Like you're going to be in way more trouble than you were before you started
fasting. Like when you fast, you have to go to church, pray, you have to redirect your attention
or else it's not, not only is it not going to work, but it's going to be damaging to your soul.
That's why I argue that we shouldn't just practice in the mindfulness traditions. And this is western.
It's not, it's, it's, it's not, it's not, you know, it's ethnocentric, right? We shouldn't
just practice meditation, right? Which is a kind of thought fast. We should also practice
contemplation, which is, and now once you've opened up that space through the thought fast,
what can you theoria? What can you contemplate that you couldn't see before? That's part of that
why Leo and I made that argument about the fact that we, we've, we've, we've reduced all this whole
ecology to this one practice and then we've reduced that practice. Like the definition of
mindfulness as, you know, paying attention to the present moment, that's, that's not what sati means,
right? And I understand that's good language of praying, the cabbage in used, but that's not
good language of explaining what's going on when you're trying to meditate, for example.
All right. So here's going to be my, this is going to be my big push on you here. So get ready.
That's fine. You don't have to push on me. All right. So, so human beings have capacity for
attention and it seems like that capacity for attention has a certain priority and, and that
priority seems to be personal. Like that is that we pay attention to people first. Faces. Yes,
we pay attention to faces, to people. And then, then we can pay attention to more abstract things,
but those abstract things, even those abstract things often end up concentrating in a person,
right? So you, you, you want to train, but you can't. So you get a coach and then all of a sudden
you can train. Like, why is it that you can train because you have a coach, but you can train if
you don't have a coach? It's because the coach is focusing your desire for attention into something
into a person that's, that's actually communicating and directing and, and becoming like a node for,
for even the more abstract telos that you have. And so this is, this is, I guess this is my big
question in terms of the manner in which reality exists, which is that I've been positing, like
I've been really working towards positing that reality has, even though I agree with you that
you could say that the infinite is transpersonal, but that as this infinite manifests itself in
the world, then it tends to take personal, it tends to culminate into personal beings.
And so my question is always for you is always to think like the idea of transpersonal, not
transpersonal in the sense of beyond humans, but I mean, I mean transpersonal in the sense of
beyond humans, but personal beings that are not human, let's say the idea of angels and the
idea of bodhisattvas or the idea of, of God's little G gods as being the manner in which reality
presents itself to us and the manner in which we encounter it, let's say.
Well, and Paul's made us, Paul medically has made a similar argument.
Okay, all right. I didn't know that.
He asked me to critique it. He invoked Pascal's difference between the spirit of geometry and
the spirit of finesse and his argument of the spirit of finesse is, is most appropriately
afforded in personal relationships. And, and so let me try and first of all strengthen your position
for you before I demolish it. No, no.
So like we're talking about joint attention and I was talking about its development and you can
link this to Bogotsky and to a lot of like, so let me give you another example of prioritizing
and paying attention. This is an experiment that's done. I've seen the video of this experiment.
So give me a moment and then I'm going to go somewhere with this and you're going to see
how it's going to strengthen your point and then, and then, and then I'll, I'll, I'll offer my
cautions. I'm not trying to demolish. I don't want to do that. So what you have is you have the,
so what you have is there's two participants in the experiment. There's a chimp, an adult chimp
and a four year old girl. Of course, this was replicated with lots of individuals. I'm just
using this for the purposes of narrative, right? And you have this box, right? And you have the
adult come in and first of all, you show the chimp and the box has all these buttons and levers
and the human does this very complicated pattern of pushing buttons and levers. And at the end,
a candy comes out and eats it. And what's really fascinating is the chimp watches once and then
replicates the pattern and gets the chocolate or whatever the candy and you go, wow, that's
impressive. And there's some, there's some evidence that their ability, their working memory attention
is stronger than ours because we sacrifice a lot for language. And then you bring in the four year
old girl and you sort of, I picture myself as cheering. I've got a little human flag, go human,
right? And they show the girls this and she just takes one and she replicates it and she gets the
candy and you go, wow, that's cool. Now, and this is the experiment. Now you bring in the box,
but now the box is plastic and completely transparent, all the same levers and buttons.
You bring the chimp in, the human adult goes through all of this and it's clear that the only
thing that releases the candy is the last action. All the other actions do nothing.
So that you does this and then the chimp and the chimp sort of looks at the human being like
and just pushes pulls the last thing and gets the candy and you go, oh, that's smart. And you
bring in the four year old girl and she watches and the adult does this and she can see that only
the last thing releases the candy. What does she do? She repeats everything the adult did.
And you go, oh, are four year olds stupider than chimp? And then you realize, no, no, no,
the human is playing the long game. The girl is thinking, the girl is thinking, obviously,
it's not she's thinking, this adult probably sees things I cannot yet see. This adult probably
knows things that I do not yet know. I'm going to imitate them because that will allow me to
transcend my own perspective. It's very hard to transcend your perspective from within your
perspective. But if a child imitates an adult's perspective, they get the capacity to transcend
their own bias. And what and Bogotsky's theory is, and here's the joint attention and the looping,
we do this enough until I can do it without you being around. I do it imagineally. I imagine
in the sense that you're there. I don't mean an image, but my metacognition is basic. Well,
think about all the imagistic language. What do you do in metacognition? You rise above your
cognition and you look at it. There's no space there. So what we're doing is we're
imagineally augmenting our ability. And that's what internalization is. I and you, we got a capacity
to become metacognitive, aware of ourselves and transcend ourselves by imitatively internalizing
other people. And did you see what that strengthens your argument deeply? Because it means I
my capacity for self-transcendence, development, transformation comes for how deeply I can
internalize you. And then you pair that with Polania's idea that I can internalize you better.
The more I can indwell you, the more I can see things from your perspective, the more I can,
right? So I want to indwell you as deeply as possible. And that allows me to internalize
you and vice versa, hopefully, too. Hopefully, it's not one way and consumatory, right? And what
that means is that my capacity for self-transcendence is deeply dependent on a medic ability in a
profound way. And it's a two-way. It's this joint attention, this looping, the sentry motor,
this mind-site resonance. And so it's deeply within us that we transcend by internalizing
personifications. And I'll use that as a neutral term. Now, I think that strengthens your case
tremendously. I think so. I think definitely, I think so. And I think that you can understand
that as, if you think about it, bottom up as scaling up, right? As scaling up in terms of
personalities into kind of personalities that are beyond just the person I meet during a meeting
or whatever, but that they would become figures of personal attention that are communal, right?
That can be something like a god or like an angel or something which binds our community together.
And so we imitate Athena or we imitate Aries. Very much. Sorry. I said very much. And if we
have a hyper-objects of persons, like people gathered into hyper-objects, like Athens being,
right, and Athena is a way of, so George Herbert Mead had this idea of the generalized other,
right? So that thing that the little girl just did with the adult. Imagine trying to do that on
a baseball team. This is George Herbert Mead's model, right? And trying to get that individual
personally tailored to each person, that's very, very hard, right? And because you're constantly
shifting who you're. And so Mead argued that we create what he called the generalized other.
We create kind of this model that is somehow the intersection of all these individual models.
And by relating to that, I can effectively coordinate with all these other people and they
with me, the generalized other. So you can think of Athena as, Athena is not just this.
But she is a generalized other of Athens that people could internalize
to become an Athenian in a very profound sense. Yeah. So we're talking about a bottom up.
I think in our context, it's easier to talk about a bottom up also to help
understand its relationship to like say something like cognitive science.
And so is there, this is also something that I'm interested in. Is there a way in which that
generalized other would find a head in an embodied person? So take the baseball team,
right? So the baseball team creates a generalized other through which to act. But then that
generalized other will be kind of embodied in the team captain. So it's like the team captain is
kind of raised up and named. And then he's not the generalized other, but he becomes something
like the place through which we can attend. And then it'll kind of stream down into the team.
So the team can cohere. A way of thinking about it is the formal cause of the generalized other
gets transformed into an efficient cause that we can actually have joint attention upon,
something like that. Is that fair to what you're saying? No, that makes sense. And you could explain
all the traditions of the kind of the God embodied in the king, let's say, that you find in Egypt and
in all these different cultures, the idea of how the, or the emperor, the idea of the divine emperor,
all of these ways in which, because Christian, I obviously don't agree with doing this, but
when they worship the emperor, they didn't worship the emperor, right? They worshiped the
emperor's genius. Yes, exactly. And so they worshiped like a transpersonal version of the
emperor, which was embodied in the emperor as a focal point for our attention. But nobody thought
that the physical emperor was, let's say, a guy. He was a guy, right? There was something above
him, which was calling us into our communion, you could say. Yeah, there's the empire, and the
empire is a hyper-object. And everybody's prosperity and peace depended on being in
right relationship with that hyper-object. But hyper-objects require, like we just,
they require some, right, something like that. They require a face, or they require a personal
being that we can relate to. That we can relate to so that we can properly do the internalization.
So we can do the, we can imagineally, not imaginary, we can imagineally
enter into right relationship with the empire. We can be devoted to the empire and internalize the
empire's values and normativity by being devoted to the genius, the capacity of the emperor to
lead and be the voice of the empire. Yes, very much. And for me, I would say that another great,
this is how I've tried to understand, and again, I don't mean this disrespectfully,
however, I've tried to understand prophecy. I don't see prophecy as fortune telling.
I don't see it like that. I see prophecy as doing exactly what you're saying, that the
prophet somehow takes something and becomes, right, the vehicle of the form. There's a tradition
in later Neoplatonism of distinguishing between the form and the vehicle by which the form can come
into efficient causation, right? And this is what, this was one of the origins of this,
the idea that's now become this new age idea of the astral body and all that, the Akama,
was this, that there's a part of us that, right? And the ontology is not important. The point I'm
trying to make is that there was this distinction between the form and the vehicle, right? So,
you know, there's the form of the good, but it needs a particular vehicle by which it instantiates
itself in a human being. Yeah, that makes sense. Because then that idea of prophecy
is far closer to my own understanding, which is that prophecies don't just predict the future.
They predict the future to the extent that they manifest a pattern. Like they're actually showing
you a pattern of how reality manifests itself to you. And in that context, and of course,
it predicts the future because it kind of is able to pull out of even of how a society lays itself
out and is able to understand that here are some inevitable patterns in which, in how something will,
like an identity will go to its end, let's say. So then it imagistically embodies through these
kind of very, very imagistic stories how, you know, what that means. And that's very much,
like the platonic notion of a form is not some sort of like the platonic notion of a triangle
isn't like a perfect triangle. It's much better. And this is happening. And I'm actually involved
in this work to try and think of the form, the platonic forms phenomenologically, like
ideas from Arlo Ponti, like, I can show you this, right? And you never see the object.
You always see aspects of it. Yeah, yeah, there's multi, it's multi aspectual, but there's a
through line. They're not fragmented. And that through line also looks up to the through line
of yourself, which is also a through line of the multi aspects of you, right? But the through
line of the multi aspectuality is not another aspect. That's the mistake, right? It's not another
aspect, the form. But what do we do? What we do is we usually draw things from a standard position
because that's a vehicle that's supposed to stand in for something that we can't actually capture
in a picture. So the form comes into a vehicle by which we can face it to some of our language.
Is that lining up with what you're... No, that makes a lot of sense. And I think the things
you're saying are going to be very useful for materialists to understand what it is that
we're talking about. I always have that fear that some people watch our videos and have no idea what
we're even talking about. But I think what you're saying is really appropriate. And so
this is like, I think that even until now, the way you're talking about it and the way that I'm
talking about it, being cautious in the sense of, let's say, talk about imaginably interacting with
these beings that are... But the question is, like my proposition is something like those
beings exist as much as you do, right? The transpersonal, like the beings that bind the
community together and become... Take up a face and become principalities for the world to exist,
they have as much existence as a person. They just exist at another level, let's say.
So first of all... That's the big... That's my big... That maybe is the... Like, you can say that that's
what makes me an explicitly religious person. It's something like that, you know?
Yeah. First of all, let me try and give a lot of ground towards that position, given what I've
already said. So what I should therefore be relatively consistent with. I've already admitted
the existence of hyper-objects. I've already... The work I do on Deologos, that there's...
A dynamical system takes shape. That's something beyond all of the individual
consciousnesses and personalities there. When we were talking with Jordan and Bishop,
I would use this language. I don't think it's inappropriate. I'm using it in a Greek fashion.
There was a Logos that was present beyond all of us and we started getting caught up in it
and following it. And I think that's completely appropriate to say. And I've experienced that.
I've seen people from religious and non-religious experiences in circling and other things. They
encounter that. I want to acknowledge all of that. I also want to acknowledge...
And this comes out of Corbin and Ibn Arabi and a whole bunch of work.
You know what a heads-up display is like in a cockpit for a pilot?
So the pilot can't afford to look down, divert their attention. And so what you do is you project
onto the screen a bunch of things so they can actually look through the screen and get the
information at the same time. Or like Pokemon Go where you have augmented reality. Here's a
proposal to you to... Now, I'm doing it in good faith. I'm trying to move towards what you said.
So give me a bit of patience. If we properly distinguish between the imaginal and the imaginary,
that the imaginal is transjective and not subjective the way the imaginary is in Corbin's
sense, the imaginal, I think it's very reasonable. And Dan and I published on this. We see the
scientists doing this for the imaginal augmentation of reality. So for example, let me give me a
concrete example. The scientists are getting these flat black and white pictures from the
rovers on Mars. What they're looking for in the researchers are people who can get the sense of
being on Mars, of being the rover, like seeing as the rover does. And what do they do? By the way,
what does the scientists do? They do this loop. First of all, they identify with the rover.
They don't say, move the rover there. They say, we should go there. The rover is we.
Right? And then they also, so they indwell the rover, but they also internalize it.
So you'll get a scientist saying, so say, oh, this is what we need to do. Put your phone front
and she's on a wheelchair. And she does this. These are the, we need to do this. And she enacts
and embodies the rover. And then you'll get these literal rocket scientists saying stuff
like this is almost a verbatim quote, Jonathan. You know, I was in my gardening and my right
wrist kept getting stuck. And then I came to the lab and spirit. That's ironically one of the names
of the rovers. It's right wheel kept getting stuck. And I don't know. I don't believe in magic,
but you know, there's some kind of sympathy, ha, ha, ha. And they laugh, right? And that's what I
mean. And what do they do with those pictures in order to do that? You know, those wonderful
panoramic pictures they send back, they're not for the science, they're for us. Yeah, what they do
is they take these pictures and they color them and they scribble on them and they mark them all
out for a test. He calls it drawing as and all of that imaginal work allows them to draw out so
that they can be on Mars and be the rover. This is what we've recently published on. This is not
some, you know, airy fairy stuff. I think, right? I know what that's like when I'm doing Tai Chi.
When I'm trying, right, that Tai Chi, they'll say, like, you know, like imagine that you're pushing
on a ball and you go, why? And then you do that, you go, oh, that's why. And by doing the imaginal
thing, you interact with the world in the right way so you see things you wouldn't otherwise see.
Does that make sense? The imaginal augmentation? Yeah, no, that makes sense. Okay, now let's go
with what we talked about before, that we can have distributed cognition and we can have shared
attention and we can have shared imaginal augmentation that puts us into reality with hyperobjects.
I think that is, again, you might find this too reductionist, but for me, I can see a lot of
what I call the serious play of religion doing exactly that, right? You got this shared joint
attention and you're getting the distributed cognition and you're allowing for that shared
imaginal augmentation of reality perception, ontological depth reception, so that people can
see and realize hyperobjects that are otherwise invisible to them. Like Mars is when all I give
you is the flat photograph. If you'll allow me analogy, religion is taking the flat photographs
that were given and turning them into me being present on Mars in a way that allows me to do
the science. I can't do the science on Mars unless I get that sense of presence. Okay, so then
that's not everything you want. No, it's not everything I want, but so would you apply that
process to you? That is, would you, because you, because when I think my difficulty is that
I'm not sure in your model, like if you have this idea that we are, let's say, intelligent beings
and then, let's say, and then these other beings that we're talking about, right, they're kind of
projections of our intelligence or whether or not those beings, those intelligent beings exist
as much as I do, as in the same process that is like, let's say I also have all these parts and
all these thoughts and all these distraction and attentions and aspects of me that are
coordinating and are being pulled into the same attentions in order for me to exist as a
unified being, let's say. That's exactly, by the way, what Mohl says attention is, it's cognitive
unison. And if you were to ask me, do I think, and I think this is a very platonic model,
do I think that distributed cognition has a collective intelligence that is more than the
sum of the individual intelligences within it? Yes. I think that's, this goes back to Hitchens,
back in, you know, cognition of the world, who navigates a ship? There's no person that navigates
a ship. It's a crew and a bunch of equipment and that system has the intelligence to grasp
the hyper-object of the ocean and the hyper-object of the ship and navigate and coordinate them
together. And there's been some pretty gruesome experiments showing that collective intelligence
can do things that individual intelligence, there's a person who literally, I don't know how this
got through ethics, wired rats together so that their brains were wired and that group of rats
could solve problems that the individual rats couldn't solve. Really? Yeah. That doesn't surprise us.
Think about the power of the Internet that is given by distributed computation. No computer
can do this, but the network can create this hyper-object, you called it earlier, a God,
right? That is like so powerful for us in so many ways. So do I think that, and I think this is one
of the great insights of the platonic idea of dialectic. It's not the Hegelian dialectic.
The platonic dialectic is we can learn an art, and that's how it's thought, about coordinating
individual cognition into distributed cognition so we can access collective intelligence and perhaps
transform it into, participate, better way of putting it, participate in its transformation
into collective wisdom. Yeah. I mean, I think it's interesting because there are these,
even in the Thomistic theories about the idea that every time two beings are in relation with each
other, they have an angel. So if I'm talking to you and I'm actually in communion with you,
then there's an angel which is acting as a principality and becoming the intelligence
into which our communion is rising up into that intelligence. I would add one more thing to it,
which also strengthens your case. You've heard me talking about this a lot.
It's not just emergence up. There's not only the ruling in of the modeling,
there's the ruling out, the emanation that is constraining how these things can take shape.
They take certain shapes. That's why there are these reliable persistent patterns for good and
for ill. But there are these reliable, like you mentioned it in prophecy, the prophet can say,
like, there's reliable ways this can go. This can go this way and it can go this way. And he's
often addressing almost always, I'm sorry, sometimes the prophets were she, but mostly
they were he. Deborah was a prophet, I know that. But they are almost always identifying
like Israel in the collective, not just sometimes they address the king, but often the king is just
the representative for Israel. And there's a spirit that they're trying to address.
Right. And so I would say all of that. Now, where you and I probably disagree,
and I'll just, all right, so I'm trying to do Genuine Deologous. I'm trying to.
Thank you.
Yeah. It is, you know, whether or not I don't think I have to be really careful.
So I think there is a proper way of talking about something like God, you know, in Spinoza's sense
or in the nontheistic sense, your notion that there's something like the pattern of
relevance realization in reality realization that is analogous to the relevance realization
and cognition, I took, I think that seriously, I think that's right. But I'm, I, and this is where
I don't think there's a consciousness for that collective intelligence.
And I don't, and I don't think there's an agency to it in the same way we understand
the agency of living things. There might be something analogous. I'm open. And by the way,
this is not just, this is not just me. And you'll find this amusing given our how we came to know
each other. Many people talk about the power of the collective intelligence of distributed
cognition as a zombie intelligence. Oh, really? Yeah, that's the term that's used. So the idea is
that, that consciousness, one of its properties might be that it only exists within a determinant
range, the things that you, so even within your own brain, within your own body embodied brain,
like you're not conscious of many levels, but you're not conscious of your neurons,
you're not confident, right? And there's lots of things at a higher level, like these hyperobjects,
you can't be conscious of them, you can be conscious of reference to them. But I can't,
there's no way in which I can be conscious of global warming. Like I can't do it, right? It
doesn't make any sense. I can think about it, and I can be conscious of my thinking of it,
but I can't be conscious of global warming the way I can be conscious of this object.
So wouldn't the fact that for thousands of years, and our let's say period being a complete
exception to that, for thousands of years, communities encountered these transpersonal
beings as being both conscious and having agency, and that they represented them as such, and talked
about them as such, and worshiped them as such, and etc, etc. Like even without talking about
God in the supreme kind of infinite way, like I don't want to talk about that too much. I want
to talk about the intermediary beings, they're easier to keep, they're easier to talk about.
I just wanted to be clear that I wasn't trying to deny a divine or sacred status to things above
us. I wanted to be clear about that. I wanted to be very clear about that. We'll put that aside,
as long as you acknowledge that that's a point I wanted to make. And you won't agree with it,
there's a brilliant anthropologist out there, Lerman, and she wrote a book and she has a whole
bunch of people, How God Becomes Real, and she talks about what you would call gods or spirits
become real for people. And she talks about the fact that we have these two different
senses of real. We may have three given that hyper-objects are real for us, and maybe they
all bleed together in important ways. That's something that phenomenology I'm trying to
work out right now with other people. But she talks about that these beings are real, but not
in the same way that other things are real for us. Sorry, this might come off as disrespectful,
but I'm just quoting, and she's not being disrespectful either, but one of the groups
she was studying was a group of evangelical Christians and for whom Jesus is real in the
way you're talking about. Now, I know that Jesus is also part of the Trinity, but I'm just trying
to call it the spirit of Christ or something like that, whatever. And she said,
Jesus is real, but you don't ask him to do your homework. That's what one evangelical
Christian said, which was like, whoa, that's a really interesting thing to say. You can ask
him to help you do your homework, but you don't say, I'm not going to do my homework, I'm going to
ask Jesus to do it. Now, there could be for moral or religious reasons, but it was clear in that
what the person was trying to convey, they were trying to convey this sense that the way these
beings interact with, for lack of a better word, physical reality is not the way physical things
interact with physical reality. Yeah, but it's a hierarchy. So it's like you could say something
like your finger doesn't ask you to clot the cut on it. Your finger doesn't ask you to clot the
blood in your finger, but you're still doing it through your body. That is, your body is the
manner in which you manifest yourself. And so that's why he's saying, Jesus doesn't do your homework.
You do your homework, but you can do that in a way that's participating in the body of Christ,
you could say. Right. But notice what's happening there. That seems to mean that their
realness as presence is always vectored through us as participating in them.
Right, because we're like parts of the body. Just like your finger is a part of you,
then we are part of Christ. Christ manifests himself. That's why he's like a higher consciousness.
Totally. So what I would then say is, for example, you don't think that because we've
networked all of the computers together, that the internet has consciousness, do you?
I'm pretty sure there's a God behind that. I'm sorry. I'm going to freak people out by saying
that. I've been pointing to it very closely, actually. I do think the internet is acting
as a body for a God. I do think so. And I think that the fact that it's moving without
anybody being able to stop it or control it or direct it completely. I agree with you on that.
So I agree on that. And that's a tricky thing, because Jung said that's the definition of spirit.
If it acts on its own, if it has a life of its own and a mind of its own, that's definitely when
we are liable to attribute spirit to it. But I would say just again, people have also
perennially done that with forests and with oceans and rivers. And I don't think that rivers have
consciousness or forests have consciousness. Well, it's not the river that has consciousness.
It's the angel that has consciousness. Just like your hand doesn't have consciousness.
It's the fullness of you in relationship to your hand that has consciousness.
Yeah, but see, and this is where we differ. I don't think there's a way of separating my
consciousness from my embodiment. No, I agree. Save you even for the river, let's say. But look,
you have a heart out now. I don't want to pull you. This is really just getting into the good
stuff. So let's just plan for another discussion. We haven't talked about this.
No, I like this. I like this. I hope you see that I'm not some dullard about this. I'm trying to,
I'm trying to, JP is very sweet about this. He sees me as trying to go as far as I can.
By the way, thank you so much for introducing me to him and Paul did that too and your tutelage
of him. I mean, it's, and I hope this doesn't sound condescending. It's meant as complimentary.
It's really wonderful watching him flourish. It's really wonderful watching him flourish
and thrive. I mean, JP is young. So it's like, I see the future as being extremely,
there are so many possibilities ahead of him. So I'm excited to watch that too. So yeah.
Yeah. So let's make it a part one and a part two then. So let's pick it up around this because
yeah, we're right on the cusp here because there is, I'll ask you to consider a possible
tension between participation and independence. How we get those together because that's for
me the nub of the issue. All right. I participate in my body and I don't think that John can be
separable or independent from it. Right. And I get that I'm not reducible to the descriptions
of the parts of my body. I concede all of that. And I think I've conceded that on all of the
examples I've talked about. Yeah. Yeah. Let's definitely, I'd say I'll just
write out say that's love, but we can talk about that and just open up that can and then
finish the discussion. So, so thank you so much. That's a great thing to lay on the table.
Thank you so much too. This is thanks and everybody also don't forget to check out
our conversation with Jordan Peterson and Bishop Barron. It's bound to make some waves
and so we're excited about that. And also looking forward to a conversation with Bishop Barron that
I will have. I don't know exactly when it's going to happen. Also pretty much very soon. And I hope
John that you also might have the chance to talk to him as well because I could see that he was
like, Oh, who's this? There's something that he's saying that is just it was kind of popping up in
his eye. So hopefully you can have a conversation with him as well. He was complimentary to me
in the blog that I read. So I'll reach out to him and have a conversation with him very much like
that. So thank you very much. All right. And so everybody, thank you. And we'll see you soon.
Bye bye. Take care. Bye bye.